Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various
kinds of output. Programming languages are used in computer programming to create programs that implement
specific algorithms

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications
and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac),
an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.
JRE stands for “Java Runtime Environment” and may also be written as “Java RTE.”
The Java Runtime Environment provides the minimum requirements for executing a Java application;
it consists of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), core classes, and supporting files.

What is IDE?
A.An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that provides comprehensive
facilities to computer programmers for software development, which mean it enable users to write ,
read and compile programming language code.  An IDE normally consists of a source code editor, build
automation tools, and a debugger. Most modern IDEs have intelligent code completion.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.IDEs available in the market to support Java are Eclipse, Intellij, Netbeans, BlueJ etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.

A.First we write a program say sample.java, Then this program in java language is complied using javac compiler and is
converted to machine independent bytecode. The code that is generated after compilation is a.class file. Last step is
execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is
bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.
what is class?
A class can be defined as a template/blueprint that describes the behavior and state that the object of its
type support. Class contains methods to describe the behavior and  properties/fields to show the sate  of an object.

What is object?
A.Object is an instance of class which a state and behavior .

What is the entry point of an application?

A. The entry point of an application is a program or method or class that starts the application.
 If you have an application bundled in a JAR file, you need some way to indicate which class within
 the JAR file is your application's entry point.
For Example The main method is the entry point of a Java application.

Why main is static?
A. Main method is static in  Java so virtual Machine can call it without creating any instance of class which
contains main method.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.

  Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of
  classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. 1.An interface in java is a contract and has method without implementation and any class which implements this interface
must provide the implementation of those abstract methods. Abstruct class can have both methods with implemention and without implementation
. If an abstract clas has an abstract method , any class extends that abstruct must implements that method.

 2. Methods in interface are public by defaul and fields are final . An abstruct class has fields and method like a normal class and can have
 any access modifier.

  3. We cannot instantiate an interface since it does not have implemented method but we can have instance variable of an interface type that refers
  to an ooject of the class its been implemented by, whereas we can instantiate an abstract class but if that class has an unimplemented
  method, that method must be implemented at the time of instantiation.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.  We cannot instantiate an interface since it does not have implemented method but we can have instance variable of an interface type that refers
     to an ooject of the class its been implemented by, whereas we can instantiate an abstract class but if that class has an unimplemented
     method, that method must be implemented at the time of instantiation.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Access modifiers of a java class, subclass , interface , field , method , specify who can access them. There are four access modifiers
used in java. They are public, private, protected, no modifier (declaring without an access modifier). Using ‘no modifier’ is also sometimes
referred as ‘package-private’ or ‘default’ or ‘friendly’ access.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming and it uses Oject in the programming language which
 represent real world entities having state and behaviour. Main Features of OPP are
    1. Inheritance
    2.Polymprpthysm
    3.Encapsulation
    4. Abstraction
    5. Dynamic Binding


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.Java package is a library which contains classes and interfaces. Java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API is Application Programmimg Interface which is an interface that faciliates the interaction among application .
In the context of Java, API is a collection of prewritten packages, classes, and interfaces with their respective methods,
 fields and constructors. Similar to a user interface, which facilitates interaction between humans and computers,
 an API serves as a software program interface facilitating interaction.
 The API that we have used java.util,java.lang, java.io,java.math,java.sql

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No java does not support multiple inheritance. Probably the language desinger have desinged this way to avoid  ambiguity.
Although Java class doesn't achieve multiple inheritance through class but it can somehow achieve this by implementing more than one
ifterfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Method Overloading is a feature that allow more than one  methods to  have same name but differnt number of arguments.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exceptions are events that occur during the execution of programs that disrupt the normal
flow of instructions (e.g. divide by zero, array access out of bound, etc.). In Java, an
exception is an object that wraps an error event that occurred within a method and contains
 Information about the error including its type.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management. It is used with variables, methods,
blocks and nested class. It is a keyword that are used for share the same variable or method of a given class.
This is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final keyword in java. final keyword is used in different contexts.Final is a non-access modifier and it is applicable
only to a variable, a method or a class. When a variable is declared with
 final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant. When a method is called final , it cant be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is a keyword in java. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
 Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize
 is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor is a special method of a class or structure in object-oriented programming that initializes an
object of that type. A constructor is an instance method that usually has the same name as the class, and can be
used to set the values of the members of an object, either to default or to user-defined values.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. A non argument default constructor will be provided by java compiler.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this keyword in java refers to the current object instance variable

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. "super" refers to the super class constructor (super()), method(super.method()) or variable(super.variable).

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A.No

What version of java are you using?
A. Java 9.0.4

What is JAR stand for ?
A.JAR stands for "Java ARchive". A JAR file is basically a zip-file which contains a couple
of class files and a text file containing some meta information.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?


What is compile time and run time?
A. The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation
process is referred to as compile time.
A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.

What is heap?
A. Heap is an area of memory used for dynamic memory allocation. Blocks of memory are allocated and freed in
this case in an arbitrary order. The pattern of allocation and size of blocks is not known until run time.

How java manage it's memory?
A. The JVM and more specifically the Garbage Collector  has the duty of handling memory management

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

String is a class in Java and String objects are immutable  ( once created can not be changed )object  .
 The object created as a String is stored in the  Constant String Pool.  Every immutable object in Java is thread safe ,
 that implies String is also thread safe . String can not be used by two threads simultaneously.

 String is immutable, if you try to alter their values, another object gets created,
 whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable so they can change their values.
 The difference between StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuffer is thread-safe. So
 when the application needs to be run only in a single thread then it is better to use StringBuilder.
 StringBuilder is more efficient than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Singleton Class in Java. In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have only one
object (an instance of the class) at a time. ... To design a singleton class: Make constructor as private.
Write a static method that has return type object of this singleton class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?

Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which
can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse
process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?

Difference between while and do..while loop?
While loops executes condition is fulfilled but do while loop ececutes least one time even though the condition is not met.

What is Enum?
A. A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants. More precisely, a Java enum type is a special
kind of Java class. An enum can contain constants, methods etc

What is Iterator?
A. An iterator is something that iterates over something. Like for loop or while loop are iterators. Because they iterate
through each element in an array, it object or anything you are iterating on.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer

The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. ... Another reason of why String
class is immutable could die due to HashMap. Since Strings are very popular as HashMap key, it's important for them
to be immutable so that they can retrieve the value object which was stored in Hash

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.
Constructor chaining can be done in two ways:
Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class
From base class: by using super() keyword to call constructor from the base class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. A serial collector is a default collector which uses only one GC thread
for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A. The JIT compiler is enabled by default, and is activated when a Java method is called. The JIT
compiler compiles the bytecodes of that method into native machine code, compiling it "just in time" to run.
When a method has been compiled, the JVM calls the compiled code of that method directly instead of interpreting it.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. All runtime object like instance of class and array are stored in Heap area in RAM.
  Garbage collector in java is a program that rums in java virtual machine to deallocate the memory space occupied by
  the objects which are no longer in use by the java application.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.
It is possible for programs to use up memory resources faster than they are garbage collected.
It is also possible for programs to create objects that are not subject to garbage collection.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the properties or behavior of an object at run-time.
Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the
 classes, methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
A.multithreading in java is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time.
A multithreaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently. ...


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource
with multiple threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a
synchronized method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A. Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you add your own code
to solve a problem in a specific domain. ... You make use of a framework by calling its methods, inheritance,
and supplying "callbacks", listeners, or other implementations of the Observer pattern. Constrast to library.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
junit , testNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?


what is dependency injection in java?


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Dynamic Binding: In Dynamic binding compiler doesn’t decide the method to be called. Overriding is a
perfect example of dynamic binding. In overriding both parent and child classes have same method
Static Binding: The binding which can be resolved at compile time by compiler is known as static
or early binding. Binding of all the static, private and final methods is done at compile-time .







